## Transparency disclaimer

Periodically this list of ongoing tasks may be updated to ensure transparency of the work underway. Should any major non-entry task be missing, please add it to "`Public feedback`" section below using the same pull request logic detailed in the main readme file — what to add/to be worked on will be at our own discretion.

Please note, I fully understand and acknowledge that I do not know enough (and am not qualified) to have my knowledge be considered as a "professional opinion"; however, the nature of unifying and coherently correlating the information learnt throughout the course is the product/service "VetDD". Creating this transparency folder and feedback mechanism is in an open acceptance of my shortcomings as far as "bredth & depth of knowledge in the field" is concerned and also, is an invitation for anyone of the public to provide input where possible. The inclusion of any points of feedback offered remains at my sole discretion.

### Data related issues underway

- [ ]  Ensure the entries for `virus` , `bacteria` , `toxic` and `parasites` are added
   - To ensure there is adequate sensitivity in combination with specificity of DD list creation, it is a rather extensive list of pathogens that need to be added in the backend. The task of knowing how to group various similar pathogens and, ensuring each entry is of adequate accuracy is a manual cumbersome task. The checklists per category have been left for transparency to share progress.
   - ~~[x] Add completed entries to the `/diseases/` folder to enable public feedback~~
      - Designed a system that automatically handles this
- ~~[x] Remove duplicate `Clinical Signs` filter options (if leftover)~~
- [ ]  Add the various Syndrome pages prevalent in Veterinary Science to the backend
- ~~[x]  Add to `/syndrome` folder to Github for public feedback process to be enacted similar to `/diseases`~~
- ~~[ ]  Correlate syndromes to the diseases when syndrome manifestation is a primary result of the disease — example left in `African Horse Sickness` & `Bovine Respiratory Disease Complex` for public understanding.~~
   - System has been designed, dataset needs expansion


### Github related issues pending
- ~~[x]  Update READ-ME to detail syndrome feedback process~~
- ~~[x] Implemented extensive & thorough documentation with the aid of Gitbook~~

### UI/UX app related issues
- ~~[x]  Add in subset dropdowns for Clinical Signs / Pathological Signs / Clinical Pathology signs – group options with descriptors + allow for whole group selection by choosing dropdown group~~
   - Decided against for forseeable future. Is not high-value add.
- [ ]  Implement v1.2 of the app - grouping logic & donations
- [ ]  Continue working on "map" visualisation to aid in visual representation of relationships


### Public feedback

- [ ]  [placeholder - please copy this line, paste it below and then replace it with your feedback in the appropriate section]
- [ ]  [placeholder]
