This conversational note is to act as a welcome message for everyone using VetDD from the day of public launch (7 May 2026). The nature of the app and the design methodology is one that warrants a deeper explanation than provided in the README file or in the transparency-disclaimer however, realising not everyone would be interested in reading this, I decided to add it as a standalone file.

### The app

It has been designed (to the best of my ability) to act as a differential diagnoses filter. As explained elsewhere, the ability to configure various "filters" in the form of *Clinical signs*, *Pathological Sign*s, *Lab Findings*, *Organ System*, and *Species Affected* lays the foundation for how to (digitally) come to a set of DD's for a case.

Each filter options has a search bar in the top of their dropdown menus to help find the various inputs you wish to add. The main search bar in the homepage searches across the card names and the latin names for each disease entry (and syndrome, later) for easy navigation. For every set of filters you apply (via the filter menus or search bar), the app automatically updates in the background to present only those DD's relevant to the filters selected. After you apply filters, hide the filter menus (or scroll down) to see the list of relevant DD's. Simply clear any applied filters to return to "normal".

The process of assigning the various filters to each disease has been kept in the background to abstract that complexity from you but, should there be any discrepancies or missing datapoints, please submit feedback as per the process explained in the README. Example: if "Pyrexia" should show "disease xyz" but it is not, and you believe this part being missing is a big detriment to the app's DD curative ability, please submit a point of feedback (note: I tried ensuring some degree of specificity by only adding in "unique" filters to be detected; lethargy/fever/weight loss are clinical signs seen in probably 95% of cases so it just becomes redundant to add them to everything).

There are also some other "nice to haves" in the app such as dark mode (millennial onwards friendly) and a referral system - I plan to have the points accumulated mean something, it's all dependent on the uptake of the app so your support would be most appreciated. The refresh button has been added which, in the background, clears the cache stored for all your instances of VetDD that have been running on your device (tech terms, ignore if you don't understand).

To install the app, on Android/PC, simply press on the "Install" button that pops out.
On iOs or Apple devices, I believe you need to go to Options -> Share -> More Options -> Add to home screen.
Or something like that, I don't know how apple devices work in all honesty.
The app is not on the App Store/Play Store - because personally, it frustrates me when I get to a food joint and they're like "Have you downloaded our app?" whilst all it takes is a good website that you can download to function as an app... anyways

You may have noticed there are not "multiple pages" in the app. This was done consciously as the need to navigate to multiple pages to access info is just bad UX we've all been forced to accept. I will, for as long as possible, try and make it a "one-page" app, even as I continue to develop/add to it.

Within each disease card, at the top of the card, there is information detailing if the selected entry is a Virus/Bacteria/Parasite etc. I plan to enhance this to show "Gram Positive/Negative" and "Rods/Cocci/etc" for the bacteria and, will figure out what to do for the parasites section - although specifying between "Tick" and "Worm" seems rather redundant, for my own perfectionism, might do something of that nature.

As far as the number of diseases/pathological agents present, it will take me time to make it "complete". I do not wish to simply add things that are grotesquely incorrect so, I am ensuring the unified data (using AI tooling based on my study notes & other student study notes) are at least somewhat accurate.

I think that's all on the app part...

### What's covered on launch day

At launch (7 May 2026), there are ~50 Virus-caused diseases and ~20 Bacteria-caused diseases added to the dataset powering the app. 

In the background, I have a total of 78 bacteria caused diseases listed to add (~60 left), ~200 parasite details and, ~150 toxin caused diseases to add. Truthfully, it is unlikely that I will be adding each entry I have listed as, I will determine if it is important enough for the South African context before adding it. The process however of adding these datapoints is… cumbersome (and manually exhaustive) so, it will be done by no earlier than July '26.


### Operations

Unfortunately, running an app like this not free; there are infrastructure costs. Initially, I have launched it as a free-access tool as it is still in a proof of concept phase but ultimately, there will have to be some revenue accrual method in the app to help subsidize/cover the costs.

Exact methodology of how this will be done has not yet been explored as I am more interested in ensuring the data accuracy of the app and smooth UX in the initial months of deployment (so I know it works well, and if it is an app of interest). Once a steady userbase has been formed and a wide array of diseases has been added to the database, exploring revenue options will be undertaken.

### Life cycles

Launch day (7 May 2026) marks the MVP/proof of concept going public. MVP = minimal viable product. In this phase, my key priority is acquiring as much feedback as possible. 

For data accuracy feedback, please follow the steps provided in the README.
For UI/UX improvement feedback, please share this with me in person or via WhatsApp.

The background database allows me to have granular level control over what I wish to see (bts), the app is an abstraction of that and thus, I need to know what aspects are working or not.

After this has been battle-tested for a period of a few days/weeks/month, I will deploy the "All/Specific/Group" global filter option. This will allow for better presentation of diseases that form parts of groups. Example; you will see "Babesiosis" instead of five different babesia cards or "Kennel Cough" instead of the three causative agents (the embedded redirects as currently deployed will remain).

Again, following a period of battle-testing, I will then move on to the next version I have also already built; enabling visualisation of relationships via a map (this is quite cool)

Anyways, as you can probably deduce, I'm just having fun (yes, this is fun for my brain lol) exploring how I can modernise the abyss of information we navigate whilst learning the various content matters in this course.

There is another aspect, far more related and intertwined to the nature of academia that I too wish to integrate into this app but, until I have a clear strategy of how to do that, I'll keep it a secret..

### Credit

It goes without saying that the knowledge I have inputted into the app's dataset is as a result of me being taught by some phenomenal lecturers and, having gained access to various great student summaries.

All of these people have contributed towards how I curated the dataset powering VetDD and, the level of detail of the information added.

Since I have been building this in stealth, I do not wish to name there here without their permission so, pending their initial review/perception of the app, I will attempt to follow-up and name them if allowed (I would very much love to do so).

One thing I can say that contributes to the motivation for  building this app; it was ingrained in me back in third year that the knowledge we learn needs to be "visceral". Whilst I am not a computer and, haven't got enough years under my belt to have the breadth of knowledge be "visceral", this app is an attempt at making a simple recall method for vets/vet students (thank you to the Dr that brought about this realisation, and for being an incredible lecturer).


### Truthful closing (not that I haven't been truthful elsewhere)

First and foremost, I AM STILL A STUDENT, I DO NOT KNOW EVERYTHING (and probably never will)

I fully understand and embrace the fact that because of my 'position' as a student, the validity of the information presented in the app may be questioned.

However, apart from the fact that the knowledge is based on student summaries that were made based on the curriculum taught, I have provided a system to allow members of the public to correct the information in the app if discrepancies are detected.

I thus highly implore and ask everyone reading this to please partake in the process of contributing back to the app's data by providing feedback where necessary if you detect an issue - it's arguably better than complaining about it…

I will continue adding to the database on a monthly and quarterly basis as it allows for me to have a nice outlet whereby I get to consolidate my learnings but, I will also dedicate time weekly to reviewing an implementing any feedback points shared.

All in all, this is just a 'pet project' of mine that has already morphed into something much bigger than I anticipated whilst building it. It will likely take a few months to years for it to approach an state whereby the calibre of the information presented, filter configurability and, interrelations between diseases & syndromes are holistically accurate and complete. It's just the nature of how things are built (rome wasn't built in a day / it takes 10 years to become an overnight success) but, at time of launch, the state is adequate to begin receiving public feedback.

If you do find it to be valuable, I would appreciate knowing as it will motivate to me to keep building and refining it :)
