# June build updates

Significant developments have been underway in the mid-year semester break of 2026. Below is a summative overview of the various aspects that were introduced, tweaked or otherwise built.

### FAQ section on homepage

An FAQ (frequently asked questions) section has been added to the homepage. Instead of having 5 static disease cards, simplified it to two and then, three FAQ cards. 

(were these questions ever asked? once)

(does it make it FAQ if they were only asked once? by default, yes)
### Repeat email sign-up prevention

A pop-up now appears should a user attempt to sign up with an email that already has an account created. Pop-up simply nudges the user to either sign in or trigger a forget password workflow.

### Onboarding form addition

In addition to the existing two/three (I already forgot) questions a user is asked at time of onboarding, a third question was added; "Based in which country?". Reason for this is simply to further analytics but also in preparation for the next major version of VetDD.

### Search index refinement

After analysing the usage from the first few months/weeks, it became apparent that users were directly searching (via the main search bar) for clinical signs or syndromes. In some cases, I haven't gotten around to adding those syndromes yet but, in other cases, it was a case of not enriching the search index adequately.

What has since been added is an additional property field where, by manual assignment, an entry may have additional tags that help it appear in the search index. Of course I cannot allow for every tag that entry already has to be a part of the search index as that would simply overpopulate any search request. But, where unique aspects or otherwise missed keywords can help enrich the search tags for an entry, I will now be manually assigning them. Example: "Pot-belly" for Cushings or, now, searching for "parvo" also shows Feline Panleukopenia.

### Added tags for bacteria & parasites

Another frustration of mine (that I finally resolved, lol) was the importance of knowing Gram positive vs Gram negative for bacteria. Or which are Rods and which are Cocci.

Parallel to this, predilection sites for parasites (primarily ticks but hey, can add any) are also relatively important to remember.

The card entries for bacteria and parasites now show this as additional tags too.

### Added entries

Total bacteria dataset increased from 36 → 60. Already 51 are added into VetDD.

Current entry addition is focussing on parasite (ticks, flies, protozoa) additions.


### Removed Organ System filter + increased Clinical Sign filter sensitivity increrased

As can be seen in the "VetDD Walkthrough" video, using the _Organ system_ filter proved problematic. This originated from how that filter was configured on the backend. After a review of the filter and the configuration logic, I decided that for the forseeable future, it would be best to remove it from the app.

The reason is simple: I had configured it to only include organ systems for each entry where clinical signs were present. Example; Diarrhoea as a clinical sign  = Gastrointestinal organ system (depsite the blunder in the video). But, sensitivity/specificity balance is not easily possible if this logic was to be carried through for each entry - hence I had not configured it as such for CPV which resulted in grross inaccuracy + imprecision. Furthermore, the question arose for "What if an organ system is only visiby affected at time of a post-mortem? Would I consider adding it into the organ system config or not?". To simplify it for now, I decided removing it would be the correct thing to do. Until I have figured out how to properly configure it later...

For the Clinical Sign filter, you will notice that some descriptors such as Abortion or Diarrhoea contain further descriptions (Bloody/Watery for Diarrhoea or Late-term/Mid-term for Abortion). An oversight of mine in the inital config of this per entry was to not include the parent for any nested specfic descriptor. This has now been fixed. Example: If an entry has the specificity of "Abortion (Mid-term)", toggling "Abortion" will still show it. This helps in overall sensitivity and, maintains specificity as, those entries that do not have a specific descriptor will not show for a nested entry. Example; toggling "Abortion (Mid-term)" will not show entries that only have "Abortion" configured.

### Security hardening

Some hardening both for future versions as well as the existing deployment were implemented. One might now see a "Loading" message pop up for a very small period of time as they open each card but, this was necessary to protect the app (and the user info). I will see if I can make it faster but, it's still pretty snappy tbh.

### Privacy Policy & Terms of Service

So… turns out you need these when creating anything. Whoops

They have now been created and added to the documentation hub, available at vetdd.org/feedback/legal. Nice part about this method of deployment is that should it ever be updated, the file shows the "Last updated" stamp (which one can then verify/trace to on Github). Transparency helps I guess.

*the next section was the biggest change*

---

## Feedback system

In the initial version of VetDD (let's call that v1.0), the feedback system was reliant on the users being accustomed to Github. I realised that this was an unrealistic expectation for users of VetDD given they are primarily vet students/vets/academics and so, a more systematic approach was needed.
### In-app feedback system

Before a user even reached the Git components/md files, there was no clear link between them and these off-app layers. To bridge that gap, a "Submit feedback" button was added to each disease modal.

Upon clicking this button, a user is now presented with three options:
1. General Feedback
2. Learn feedback process
3. Feedback for this card 

General feedback serves as an opportunity for the user to submit feedback directly to me about the app as a whole (UI, UX, filters, anything else). 

Learn feedback process redirects them to the "Edit existing entries" guide section - I contemplated sending the user to the parent page "Feedback process" first but, figured a user coming from a disease card is more interested in submitting feedback for what is an existing entry, hence the specificity. I will probably add a similar button under the show more button called "Add new entry" which takes them to the "Create new entry" guide.

Feedback for this card takes them to the specific file for that card - thereby making the process seamless for a user who has already read the guide.

### Gitbook

The first step to easing the off-app feedback process was to have a layer that abstracted the Git structure and .md files (for the guides).

After reaching out to Gitbook to apply for their community plan, I was really grateful and please to hear they accepted my request.

The page you now see at vetdd.org/feedback is a page that is structured and designed by Gitbook.

I cannot thank their team enough for this, it is a crucial step.

### Guides for non-git-accustomed users

The next step was to create extensive & thorough guides that would inform a user who has never used Markdown format or Git repo's how to submit feedback for VetDD.

This has now been completed in the pages [Edit existing entries](https://vetdd.org/feedback/feedback-process/edit-existing-entries) and [Create a new entry](https://vetdd.org/feedback/feedback-process/create-a-new-entry) (including their subpages).

The hope is that the guides created allow for one to self-sufficiently submit feedback for the contents of VetDD.

### Feedback tracking

I understand that not everyone would be incentivised to provide feedback to VetDD (professional/social responsibility levels vary between individuals, this is normal) but, as a "thank-you" to those that do, I have built in a system whereby should any feedback be accepted and applied in VetDD, the user is accredited with "points".

What these points equate to in the future, I am uncertain. Of course I would like to guarantee it having financial value but, at this stage, it is far too early for me to make such promises. But, to at least enable me to make an informed decision down the line, the tracking system for this has been implemented.

It is not automatic; for a user to link their feedback contributions to these "points", they have to manually connect their Github account to their VetDD account. To trigger this, a "Connect Github" button has been left in the footer. Pressing it will activate the workflow to enable the feedback points tracking.

The points are now a combination of one's referral points and their contribution points.

---

## Later deployments

A lot of work was also done for future deployments (versions) of VetDD since this work was coding heavy.

A full end-to-end donation system was built (leveraging [Paystack](https://paystack.com/)) to enable those that wish to support the continuity of VetDD, this may be released in 1-2 months time. 

Additionally, universal page view mode filters are being developed. As the dataset increases, it is bound to become clustered. Already, a toggle between "Specific" and "Groups" has been developed such that should a disease fall a part of a group, it can be nested into the group. For example, instead of seeing CAV2; Mammalian rubulavirus and Bordetella bronchiseptica, if "Groups" is toggled, one only sees "Kennel cough". Neater overall and, since the Kennel cough card nests CAV inside it, no information is ever lost. The inverse has already been applied on the main deployment; one can no longer see the group cards as they were just clustering the view, and I still need to figure out how to give a complex content; but one can still access them via their nested location within the inidividual specific agents… Might tweak search index fields a bit more too now that I write this. Similar to this "specific agent vs group" may need to be developed for disease & syndromes if the dataset gets too large.

---

## Current goals

As my June holiday comes near to an end (~1.5 weeks at time of writing), I'm pretty glad I sorted out all the heavy systems design, coding and documentation creation elements.

Now, the task is simply two-fold:
1. Add more entries to the dataset
2. Improve distribution and reach

Wish me luck :)
